Mobilization has turned out to be one of the greatest challenges faced by students at OUSL. Apart from that, they also feel that in such distance education systems, the opportunities to unleash their talents and apply their knowledge to real-life situations remain limited. Isolation experienced by learners in Open and Distance Learning systems often shapes their academic experiences. It sometimes becomes harder due to these conditions to develop supportive networks and access effective collaboration. In fact, OUSL has a new innovative idea in the name of Virtual Study Groups and Social Learning Platform. The intention here is to pull students close to each other through the creation of an environment where they will feel free to collaborate and share ideas, as well as support each other in their academic journeys. Naturally, the idea of developing such an interactive platform is to bring contemporary technology and create an interesting virtual environment for students no matter where they are.

This virtual study platform will also have many tools to make ODL very interactive and entertaining for the students. ODL will soon enable students to peer group form and to join virtual study groups for shared uses of interactive whiteboards for brainstorming in collaboration with co-editors who will incorporate components necessary for them to work on projects synchronized. Discussion forums will be the electronic spaces for academic discussions while messaging will be a secure way of interacting. There will be peer mentoring assignments where old students will help new students settle in better. This will enhance the experience of online learning by incorporating breakout room settings within online classes that traditionally were not utilized in typical lectures, such as using gamification methods such as quizzes, leaderboards, and badges. Social media integration will add another layer of connectivity in an informal way, allowing each student to relate with others to create a sense of belonging.

Definitely, OUSL will advocate for the resources which allow the exploring with its understanding that this project mirrors one's contribution to the very institution where students study.
